Password optional guides: Recommended best practices (#3569)
okta/okta-developer-docs: packages/@okta/vuepress-site/docs/guides/pwd-optional-best-practices/main/index.md

---
title: Recommended best practices
---

A list of recommended best practices for password-optional use cases using the Embedded SDK.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Protect your admin accounts

Before you configure the passwordless experience, ensure that your admins continue to have passwords available. This ensures that users who don't have a password provisioned are not inadvertently blocked from signing in. To do this:

* Create a separate group for admins and add your admin users to that group.
* Create separate authenticator enrollment, global session, and authentication policies for this group.
* Place this group at the highest priority (at no. 1) in the authenticator enrollment policy.

```

Author: I've updated the guide with this section (with some amendments). Also, it's hard for me to make that mental leap of how users without passwords will get locked out if they don't create an Admin group.

Author: let's talk about this one.

## Add phone as an additional authenticator

> If you've enabled your users to forgo the password and sign in with only a single authenticator, create more resiliency in these passwordless authentications by allowing users to use another authenticator. You were shown in the <StackSnippet snippet="signupwithemail" inline/> and <StackSnippet snippet="signinwithemail" inline/> guides on how to integrate password-optional sign-in flows in your app by using only email. These guides are primarily meant to be learning tools to help you understand how to integrate password-optional use cases in your app. In reality, however, user emails change, get lost, become compromised, and may not be accessible during authentication. In these scenarios, supporting another authenticator along with email gives users a fallback option to sign into your app and avoid user lockout.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The <StackSnippet snippet="signupwithemail" inline/> and <StackSnippet snippet="signinwithemail" inline/> guides show you how to integrate password-optional sign-in flows in your app using only email. These guides are primarily meant to be learning tools to help you understand how to integrate password-optional use cases in your app. In reality, however, user emails change, get lost, become compromised, and may not be accessible during authentication. In these scenarios, supporting another recovery authenticator along with email gives users a fallback option to sign into your app and avoid user lockout.
```

> Although more secure options are available, the phone authenticator is a popular and recommended alternative authenticator because it's easy to deploy, quick and seamless to use, and familiar for most users. To learn how to integrate the phone authenticator in your app, see the phone enrollment steps in the <StackSnippet snippet="signinwithpwdandphone" inline/> guide. The guide describes a specific phone enrollment user journey, but you can choose your unique implementation since you are using the Embedded SDK.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The phone authenticator is a popular and recommended alternative authenticator because it's easy to deploy, quick and seamless to use, and familiar for most users. To learn how to integrate the phone authenticator in your app, see the phone enrollment steps in the <StackSnippet snippet="signinwithpwdandphone" inline/> guide.
```

Author: updated.
